=head1 NAME

ffmpeg-scaler - FFmpeg video scaling and pixel format converter

=head1 DESCRIPTION


The FFmpeg rescaler provides an high-level interface to the libswscale
library image conversion utilities. In particular it allows to perform
image rescaling and pixel format conversion.



=head1 SCALER OPTIONS


The video scaler supports the following named options.

Options may be set by specifying -I<option> I<value> in the
FFmpeg tools. For programmatic use, they can be set explicitly in the
C<SwsContext> options or through the F<libavutil/opt.h> API.


=over 4



=item B<sws_flags>

Set the scaler flags. This is also used to set the scaling
algorithm. Only a single algorithm should be selected.

It accepts the following values:

=over 4


=item B<fast_bilinear>

Select fast bilinear scaling algorithm.


=item B<bilinear>

Select bilinear scaling algorithm.


=item B<bicubic>

Select bicubic scaling algorithm.


=item B<experimental>

Select experimental scaling algorithm.


=item B<neighbor>

Select nearest neighbor rescaling algorithm.


=item B<area>

Select averaging area rescaling algorithm.


=item B<bicubiclin>

Select bicubic scaling algorithm for the luma component, bilinear for
chroma components.


=item B<gauss>

Select Gaussian rescaling algorithm.


=item B<sinc>

Select sinc rescaling algorithm.


=item B<lanczos>

Select lanczos rescaling algorithm.


=item B<spline>

Select natural bicubic spline rescaling algorithm.


=item B<print_info>

Enable printing/debug logging.


=item B<accurate_rnd>

Enable accurate rounding.


=item B<full_chroma_int>

Enable full chroma interpolation.


=item B<full_chroma_inp>

Select full chroma input.


=item B<bitexact>

Enable bitexact output.

=back



=item B<srcw>

Set source width.


=item B<srch>

Set source height.


=item B<dstw>

Set destination width.


=item B<dsth>

Set destination height.


=item B<src_format>

Set source pixel format (must be expressed as an integer).


=item B<dst_format>

Set destination pixel format (must be expressed as an integer).


=item B<src_range>

Select source range.


=item B<dst_range>

Select destination range.


=item B<param0, param1>

Set scaling algorithm parameters. The specified values are specific of
some scaling algorithms and ignored by others. The specified values
are floating point number values.


=back




=head1 SEE ALSO



ffmpeg(1), ffplay(1), ffprobe(1), ffserver(1), libswscale(3)


=head1 AUTHORS


The FFmpeg developers.

For details about the authorship, see the Git history of the project
(git://source.ffmpeg.org/ffmpeg), e.g. by typing the command
B<git log> in the FFmpeg source directory, or browsing the
online repository at E<lt>B<http://source.ffmpeg.org>E<gt>.

Maintainers for the specific components are listed in the file
F<MAINTAINERS> in the source code tree.



